 

Certification Overview 

 

The National Instruments LabVIEW Certification Program consists of the following three certification levels: 

- Certified LabVIEW Associate Developer (CLAD) 
- Certified LabVIEW Developer (CLD) 
- Certified LabVIEW Architect (CLA) 


 

Each level is a prerequisite for the next level of certification. 

 

A CLAD demonstrates a broad and complete understanding of the core features and functionality available in the LabVIEW Full Development System and possesses the ability to apply that knowledge to develop, debug, and maintain small LabVIEW modules. The typical experience level of a CLAD is approximately 6 to 9 months in the use of the LabVIEW Full Development System. 

 

A CLD demonstrates experience in developing, debugging, and deploying and maintaining medium to large scale LabVIEW applications. A CLD is a professional with an approximate cumulative experience of 12 to 18 months developing medium to large applications in LabVIEW. 
 

A CLA demonstrates mastery in architecting LabVIEW applications for a multi-developer environment. A CLA not only possesses the technical expertise and software development experience to break a project specification into manageable LabVIEW components but has the experience to see the project through by effectively utilizing project and configuration management tools. A CLA is a professional with an approximate cumulative experience of 24 months in developing medium to large applications in LabVIEW. 

Note The CLAD certification is a prerequisite to taking the CLD exam. The CLD certification is a prerequisite to taking the CLA exam. There are no exceptions to this requirement for each exam. 


Exam Overview 

 

Product: Your test computer will have the latest LabVIEW Full or Professional Development System installed for developing your application. Contact your proctor or testing center prior to the exam to get the details and familiarize yourself with the LabVIEW version that you will use to develop your application. 

Refer to ni.com/labview/how_to_buy.htm for details on the features available in the LabVIEW Full / Professional Development System. 

 

Please note that you will not receive extra exam time to compensate for non-familiarity with the LabVIEW environment. If you need time to customize the environment, please make arrangements with your proctor to hold off on giving you the exam packet until you are ready to start the exam. 

The CLA exam validates LabVIEW software architecting skills and experience in a team-based environment. The exam involves project planning, understanding or software requirements, software architecture, and VI development. The exam does not involve any hardware. 

The use of resources available in LabVIEW, such as the LabVIEW Help, examples, and templates are allowed during the exam. Externally developed VIs or resources are prohibited. 

The CLA exam consists of a project that is very similar to the project that you worked on the CLD exam. 

A detailed application specification and requirements document will be provided. The specifications consist of general and technical requirements for the application. The application architecture should contain the main VI, modules, data structures organized appropriately in a LabVIEW project. 

Your exam submissions should be transferred to a disk and turned in to your proctor. 

Note Do not detach the binding staple, copy, or reproduce / retain any section of the exam document or solution of the exam. Failure to comply will result in failure. 

 

Exam Logistics 

 

1. Complete the Agreement to the Terms and Conditions. 
2. U.S. registrants: Fax the agreement and register for the exam by calling National Instruments at (888) 484-4436 or register online at ni.com/training. 
3. International registrants: Contact your local office to resister and schedule the exam. 
4. Pay the certification exam fee or local currency equivalent. 


For general questions or comments, email: certification@ni.com. 

 

Exam Topics 

 

1. Project Requirements 
2. Project Organization and Hierarchy 
3. Project Architecture and Design 
4. Team-Based Design, Development, and Standardization Practices 
5. Reusable Tools / Component Design 


Note The CLA exam is cumulative and includes CLAD and CLD exam topics. 

 

 

Topic 

Subtopic 

1. Project Requirements 


 

a. Technical requirements 
b. Requirements tracking 


2. Project Organization and Hierarchy 


a. LabVIEW project hierarchy 
b. Disk hierarchy 
c. LabVIEW paths 


3. Project Architecture and Design 


 

a. Main VI architecture 
b. Module / subVI architecture 
c. Simulation architecture 
d. User interface design 
e. Advanced design methods 
f. Documentation 


4. Team-Based Design, Development, 
and Standardization Practices 


a. LabVIEW development practices 
b. Configuration management 


5. Reusable Tools / Component Design 


a. LabVIEW technologies 
b. API design 




 

CLA Topics Details 

 

1. Project Requirements 
a. Technical requirements 




Determine and list the following requirements from the project specification: 

1. Application requirements¡ªGoal and purpose of the application 
2. User interface requirements¡ªPresentation and behavior of controls that interact with users 
3. Functional requirements¡ªThe functionality of the components and their interaction within the system 
4. Timing requirements¡ªHardware / software, event-based, resolution, jitter, data overflow, daylight savings 
5. Error handling requirements¡ªWarning, errors, critical errors, shutdown sequence 
6. Hardware or simulation requirements¡ªInterface and operational requirements for field devices 
7. Input / Output requirements¡ªConsole, file, printer, and network devices 
8. Initialization, shutdown requirements¡ªUser interface and program behavior during startup, error conditions, and shutdown 
9. Non-functional requirements¡ªAccuracy, performance, security, and modifiability 
10. Assumptions and constraints 
a) A functional assumption is an issue that is unclear in the specification 
b) A functional constraint is a design decision that is imposed by the specification 




b. Requirements tracking: 
1. Classify requirements by the following criteria: 
a) Customer specification 
b) Software design 
c) Risks involved 
d) Verifiable by tests 


2. Methods or (utilization of) software tools to track requirements 
a) LabVIEW based tools¡ªNI Requirements Gateway 
b) Third party tools¡ªDOORS, Rational tools, and so on 
c) Proprietary tools¡ªspreadsheets, databases, and so on 


2. Project Organization and Hierarchy 
a. LabVIEW Project hierarchy 
1. Develop a LabVIEW Project hierarchy for team-based development 
a) Modules and their hierarchy 
b) Shared subVI / custom controls 
c) Plug-in VIs 
d) LabVIEW Project libraries 
e) Support files (documentation and so on) 


2. Specify a naming convention 


b. Disk hierarchy 
1. Mimic project hierarchy on disk 
2. Use auto-populating folders 
3. Project hierarchy on network sever (source control) 


c. Paths 
1. VI search path configuration 
2. Use (relative) symbolic paths 
3. Utilization of relative and absolute path in code 




3. Project Architecture and Design 
a. Main VI architecture 
1. Select an advanced, scalable, and modular architecture that enables the following: 
a) Handling of user interface events and user events 
b) Asynchronous and parallel processing of events 
c) Initialization, shutdown, state persistence, and restoration 
d) Effective error (logic and run-time) handling 
e) Timing (event or poll-based) 
f) Team-based development 


2. Develop data and event messaging structures 
3. Develop architecture to handle configuration data 
4. Develop interfaces for simulation and other modules 
5. Utilize the LabVIEW Development Guidelines for memory optimization 


b. Module / subVI architecture 
1. Select a cohesive architecture and design for modules and subVIs 
2. Define and develop a clear API 
3. Define a consistent connector pane and icon 
4. Define error handling and ensure critical errors are handled appropriately 


c. Simulation module architecture 
1. Select a modular architecture that simulates external hardware 
2. Design a scalable interface that can ease transition from simulation to hardware 
3. Select user interface components that closely mimic the function of the hardware 


d. User interface design 
1. Utilize the LabVIEW Development Guidelines 
2. Organize, modularize, or group user interface components to follow a process, or logical sequence 






3. Utilize advanced LabVIEW development techniques 


e. Advanced design methods 
1. Develop an architecture for a modular, scalable, and maintainable application 
2. Implement, develop, and enhance standard design patterns to suit project requirements 
3. Utilize an event-based design for user interface events and define user generated events for timing, error, signaling, and so on 
4. Abstract functionality and develop a clear and consistent interface API for modules and subVIs 
5. Utilize and standardize scalable data types and data structures 
6. Utilize object oriented design, recursion, VI Server, and advanced file IO techniques 


f. Documentation 
1. Utilize the LabVIEW Development Guidelines 
2. Document the following architectures using the functional specification 
a) Main architecture for module integration 
b) Data structures and data and message communication mechanism 
c) Modules, subVIs, and interfaces (API) 
d) Simulation module, interfaces, and requirements for transitioning from simulation to hardware module 






4. Team-Based Design, Development, and Standardization Practices 
a. LabVIEW development practices 
1. Establish and use consistent development style¡ª Utilize the LabVIEW Development Guidelines as well as company developed standards 
2. Use templates as a starting point for development 
3. Document VI Properties, the block diagram, and the user interface (tip strips, and so on) 
4. Develop reusable modules and tools to standardize development 


b. Configuration management 
1. Utilize a source control system to manage and track project changes 
2. Develop team policies and processes for using the source control system 
3. Develop a project hierarchy and VI naming scheme to avoid cross-linking 
4. Utilize built-in LabVIEW tools for configuration management 




5. Reusable Tools / Component Design 
a. LabVIEW technologies 
1. Determine the optimal method for developing a reusable component or a productivity enhancement tool from the following technologies: 
a) Custom controls 
b) Merge VI 
c) SubVI 
d) XControls 
e) VI template 


2. Develop tools to automate development, testing and project related tasks 


b. API design 
1. Develop a simplified API to wrap advanced LabVIEW functions 






2. Develop manager VIs to handle common tasks, such as reference management of queues, user events, and so on. 
3. Utilize project access options to restrict or allow access to components of libraries 






 

CLA Exam 

 

In the CLA exam you will be required to design an architecture that covers the requirements given in a project specification. 

Exam Duration: 4 hours 

Style of exam: Application architecture development 

Passing grade: 70% 

 

Application Architecture Development: 

You must develop an application framework consisting of a main VI, modules, supporting subVIs, and custom controls (type definitions). A module is a subVI or group of subVIs that performs a set of functions. A module may have it own hierarchy of subVIs. 

 

Note You are not required to submit a functional application. The functional details are for documenting the functional requirements in the main VI, modules, and subVIs. You must provide this documentation in the architecture to enable developers on your team to develop the functionality. 

 

The architecture has the following minimum requirements: 

a. Develop a project hierarchy 
b. Develop a main (controller) VI. The main VI should not include any functional logic for the application, but should include the following: 
i. User interface 
ii. Driving architecture 
iii. Major data structures 
iv. Event, data, timing, and error communication method(s) 
v. Error handling 
vi. Instruction or comments listing the functional details, which are sufficient for a developer to complete the functionality of the VI 
vii. Fully connected modules and /or subVIs 




 

c. Develop shell (stub) modules and subVIs, which should not include any functional logic, but should include the following: 


i. Inputs, outputs, icon, and connector pane 

ii. Architecture and API 

iii. Major internal data structures 

iv. Error handling and error communication 
v. Instructions or comments listing the functional details, which are sufficient for a developer to complete the functionality of the VI 




 

d. Develop an interface for hardware simulation as a separate module or as part of the main VI or any other module, depending on your design. Your design should not include any functional logic, but should include the following: 



i. Appropriate front panel objects 

ii. Architecture and API 

iii. Inputs, outputs, icon, and connector pane, depending on your design 

iv. Major data structures 

v. Error handling and error communication 
vi. Documentation listing the functional details, which should be sufficient for a developer to complete the functionality of the VI 




 

e. Develop inter-process communication mechanism 
f. Develop a error handling and shutdown strategy 


 

Requirements Tracking 

The project specification will detail requirements identified by a unique identifier. In order to demonstrate coverage of a requirement, you must include the ID of the requirement in the documentation of your architecture. Requirements can be covered in any part of the architecture¡¯s documentation, including: 

. VI Documentation Property 
. Control Documentation Property 
. Project or Library Documentation Property 
. Comments on the front panel or block diagram 


 

A single requirement may be covered by multiple sections of code if all of those sections are necessary to fulfill the requirement. 

To cover a requirement, the following text should be in the in the documentation of the code: [Covers: ID] 

 

Note A requirements tracking tool (Requirements Gateway) will used to verify the requirements coverage, hence adherence to the above syntax is crucial. 

 

Please refer to the CLA Sample exam to see the how the coverage is documented in the VI and the instruction / comments that need to be included in the VI for a developer to complete the implementation. 

 

Grading: 

The point allocation for the CLA exam consists is as follows: (Total: 100 points) 

. User interface and block diagram style : 10 points 
. Documentation : 20 points 
. Requirements coverage : 30 points 
. Architecture development : 40 points 


CLA Exam Preparation Resources 

 

Use the following resources for additional exam preparation: 

. Managing Software Engineering in LabVIEW 
. Advanced Architectures for LabVIEW 
o Instructor-led training 
o Self-paced training using the course manuals 


. CLA Sample Exam 
o Certified LabVIEW Architect Sample Exam ¨C ATM 


. CLA Sample Exam Solution 
o Certified LabVIEW Architect Sample Exam Solution ¨C ATM 




 

 

 

