Simulation Interface Requirements 
SI1	. The components of the Simulation Interface shall be separated from the ATM controller by defined interfaces which mimic communication with the Physical Console and Enterprise Database. 
SI2	. The Simulation Interface shall automatically initiate the Simulated Console, Simulated Database, and ATM Controller upon startup. 
SI3	. The Simulation Interface simulates a single session and terminates when the user completes all activity and requests return of the bank card. 
 
Simulated Console Requirements 
UI1	. The simulation interface shall mimic the illustration as closely as possible The simulation interface shall include the following components and functionality 
UI2	. The simulation interface shall include a Card Slot component. 
UI2A	. Card slot component shall simulate acceptance of a card from a user. 
UI2B	. When the Card Slot component is enabled, inserting a simulated card shall notify the ATM Controller. 
UI2C	. Card slot shall visibly change to indicate that a card is inserted. 
UI3	. The simulation interface shall include a Keypad component 
UI3A	. When enabled, the keypad component shall allow the user to enter a number. 
UI3A1	. Pressing one of the numeric keys on the keypad will cause the number to be displayed on an indicator. The number should be appended to any existing numbers. 
UI3B	. Pressing the C button on keypad shall clear any digits entered. 
UI3C	. The ATM Controller may clear the keypad by signaling the User Console. 
UI3D	. Pressing the E button on keypad shall signal to the ATM Controller that numeric entry is complete. 
UI4	. The simulation interface shall include a ATM Messages component 
UI4A	. ATM messages will display text messages when prompted by the ATM Controller. 
UI4B	. When a new message is received, any previous messages shall be cleared. 
UI5	. The simulation interface shall include a Left and Right Buttons component. 
UI5A	. When the buttons are enabled, the user console will notify the ATM Controller each time a button is pressed. 
UI6	. The simulation interface shall include a Left and Right Menu component. 
UI6A	. The Left and Right Menu items will display text items when prompted by the ATM Controller. 
UI7	. The ATM Controller shall have the ability to disable the function of any component on the User Console. 
UI7A	. A disabled component will perform no action if the user presses or interacts with it. Disabling a display component such as the ATM Messages or Left and Right Menu has no effect. 

Simulated Database Requirements 
SD1	. The database shall store records where each record contains the following elements. 
SD1A	. Account Number ¡§C 5 Digit Integer number 
SD1B	. First Name ¡§C Text, maximum of 256 characters 
SD1C	. Last Name ¡§C Text, maximum of 256 characters 
SD1D	. Balance ¡§C Fractional number with at least 9 integer digits and 2 decimal digits 
SD1E	. Locked ¡§C Boolean flag 
SD2	. The database shall provide a mechanism to search for a record based upon an account number. 
SD2A	. Upon locating a record the database shall check the locked element of the record. 
SD2A1	. If the record is locked, the database shall return an appropriate notification. In this scenario the account information is not returned. 
SD2A2	. If the record is not locked, the database shall change the element to locked and return the record. 
SD2B	. If a matching record cannot be located, the database shall return an appropriate notification. 
SD2C	. If the database interface successfully searches for and locks a record, the interface is said to ?¡ãown?¡À that record. 
SD2C1	. The database interface should keep a temporary copy of the data in a record it owns. 
SD2C2	. The database interface should own only one record at a time. 
SD2C2A	. Attempting to own a second record should return a Session Error. 
SD3	. The database shall provide a mechanism to modify the account balance of a record. 
SD3A	. This functionality will only be available on a record that is owned by the interface. 
SD3B	. Modifying the account balance in this way will only affect the local copy of the owned record. 
SD4	. The database shall provide a mechanism to access any element of a record. 
SD4A	. This functionality will only be available on a record that is owned by the interface. 
SD5	. The database shall provide a mechanism to commit a record. 
SD5A	. This functionality will only be available on a record that is owned by the interface. 
SD5B	. When a record is committed, the database interface shall overwrite the balance of the original record with the balance of the local record copy. 
SD6	. The database shall provide a mechanism to unlock a record. 
SD6A	. This functionality will only be available on a record that is owned by the interface. 
SD6B	. When a record is unlocked, the database interface is no longer considered to own the record, and should clear any local copies of the record data. 
SD7	. It must be somehow possible for a tester to populate the simulated database.However, this may be through an external program or editor. 
 
User Message Requirements 
UM1	. The ATM Controller shall store a list of messages, as shown in the ATM Messages Table below. The Message Name is an identifier that is used throughout this document to efficiently refer to a given message. 
UM1A	. The message table shall be stored in such a way that messages can be added, removed, or changed without recompiling the ATM Controller code. 
UM2A	. Some messages contain parameters in italic that shall be dynamically replaced with data from the Account database or keypad when displayed. 
UM2	. The ATM Controller will send a message to the User Console as necessary to fulfill other requirements. 

ATM Menu Requirements 
AM1	. The ATM Controller shall store a list of menu states, as shown in the ATM Menus Table below. The Menu State is an identifier that is used throughout this document to efficiently refer to a given menu. 
AM1A	. The menu table shall be stored in such a way that menu items and states can be added, removed, or changed without recompiling the ATM Controller code. 
AM2	. The ATM Controller will apply a menu state to the User Console as necessary to fulfill other requirements. 
AM2A	. Each table item within the menu state corresponds to one of the left or right menu locations on the User Console. Applying a state displays the corresponding text on the corresponding menu location. A menu location with the text ?¡ãNone?¡À displays nothing. 

ATM Button Requirements 
AB1	. When a requirement specifies that the ATM Controller should wait for a user button the ATM Controller should wait for the User Console to indicate that a button has been pressed. 
AB2	. Any buttons pressed before the ATM Controller begins waiting should be ignored. 
AB3	. When pressed, a button indicates the function associated with it in the current menu state. 
AB4	. Any buttons with a menu state of none should be ignored. 
 
Initial State Requirements 
IS1	. On the user console, disable the Keypad, Left Buttons, and Right Buttons. Enable the Card Slot. 
IS2	. Set the Menu State to Blank. 
IS3	. Display Welcome Message. 
IS4	. Wait for the User Console to indicate that a card has been inserted into the Card Slot. 
IS5	. Transition to the Login State. 

Login State Requirements 
LO1	. On the user console, disable the Card Slot, Left Buttons, and Right Buttons. Enable the Keypad. 
LO2	. Clear the Keypad. 
LO3	. Set the Menu State to Blank. 
LO4	. Display Welcome Message. 
LO5	. Wait for the User Console to indicate that a number has been entered into the keypad. 
LO6	. Query the Account Database for the number 
LO6A	. If the Account is not found in the database or is locked, this is considered an invalid login attempt. 
LO6A1	. In the event of an invalid login, display the Account Verification Failed Message. 
LO6A2	. In the event of an invalid login, restart the Login state. 
LO6B	. If the Account is found and not locked clear the Keypad and transition to the Main Menu State. 

Main Menu State Requirements 
MM1	. On the user console, disable the Card Slot and Keypad. Enable the Left Buttons, and Right Buttons. 
MM2	. Display Main Menu Message. 
MM3	. Set the Menu State to Main Menu. 
MM4	. Wait for a user button press. 
MM4A	. Pressing the Balance Inquiry button transitions the system to the Balance Inquiry state. 
MM4B	. Pressing the Deposit button transitions the system to the Deposit state. 
MM4C	. Pressing the Withdraw button transitions the system to the Withdraw state. 
MM4D	. Pressing the Fast Cash $50 button shall cause the system to check if the balance of the Account Database record is greater or equal to $50.00. 
MM4D1	. If there are sufficient funds, modify the balance of the Account Database record and commit the change. 
MM4D2	. If there are insufficient funds, make no change to the database and display the Withdrawal Failed Message in the subsequent Withdrawal Complete state. 
MM4D3	. Transition to the Withdrawal Complete state after Fast Cash $50 is pressed, whether the transaction was successful or not. 
MM4E	. Pressing the Return Card and Terminate button transitions the system to the Terminate state. 

Balance Inquiry State Requirements 
BI1	. On the user console, disable the Card Slot and Keypad. Enable the Left Buttons and Right Buttons. 
BI2	. Clear the Keypad. 
BI3	. Display Balance Inquiry Message. 
BI4	. Set the Menu State to Return. 
BI5	. Wait for a user button press. 
BI5A	. Pressing the Done button transitions the system to the Main Menu state. 

Deposit State Requirements 
DP1	. On the user console, disable the Card Slot. Enable the Keypad, Left Buttons and Right Buttons. 
DP2	. Display Deposit Message. 
DP3	. Set the Menu State to Cancel. 
DP4	. Wait for the User Console to indicate a user button press or a keypad entry. 
DP4A	. Pressing the Cancel button transitions the system to the Main Menu state. 
DP4B	. A keypad entry triggers a deposit 
DP4B1	. In the event of a deposit, modify the balance of the Account Database record and commit the change. 
DP4B2	. In the event of a deposit, transition to the Deposit Complete State 

Deposit Complete State Requirements 
DC1	. On the user console, disable the Card Slot and Keypad. Enable the Left Buttons and Right Buttons. 
DC2	. Clear the Keypad. 
DC3	. Display Deposit Complete Message. 
DC4	. Set the Menu State to Return. 
DC5	. Wait for a user button press. 
DC5A	. Pressing the Done button transitions the system to the Main Menu state. 

Withdrawal State Requirements 
WD1	. On the user console, disable the Card Slot. Enable the Keypad, Left Buttons and Right Buttons. 
WD2	. Display Withdrawal Message. 
WD3	. Set the Menu State to Cancel. 
WD4	. Wait for the User Console to indicate a user button press or a keypad entry. 
WD4A	. Pressing the Cancel button transitions the system to the Main Menu state. 
WD4B	. A keypad entry triggers a withdrawal 
WD4B1	. In the event of a withdrawal, compare the balance of the Account Database record to the withdrawal amount. 
WD4B1A	. If there are sufficient funds, modify the balance of the Account Database record and commit the change. 
WD4B1B	. If there are insufficient funds make no change to the database and display the Withdrawal Failed Message in the subsequent Withdrawal Complete state. 
WD4B2	. In the event of a withdrawal or failed withdrawal, transition to the Withdrawal Complete state. 

Withdrawal Complete State Requirements 
WC1	. On the user console, disable the Card Slot and Keypad. Enable the Left Buttons and Right Buttons. 
WC2	. Display Withdrawal Complete Message or Withdrawal Failed Message depending upon whether the withdrawal was successful. 
WC3	. Set the Menu State to Return. 
WC4	. Wait for a user button press. 
WC4A	. Pressing the Done button transitions the system to the Main Menu state. 
 
Terminate State Requirements 
TS1	. Disable all of the components of the User Console. 
TS2	. Signal the User Console to return any inserted card to the user. 
TS3	. Set the Menu State to Blank. 
TS4	. Display Session Terminate Message. 

Security Requirements 
SC1	. The machine transitions to the Terminate State after three consecutive invalid login attempts. 
SC2	. The machine transitions to the Terminate State after an inactivity period of ten seconds during which no input from the console is detected. 
 
Error Handling Requirements 
EH1	. The system shall define three levels of error with associated actions. 
EH1A	. A Minor Error shall be invisible to the user. The system should continue any operations without interruption. 
EH1B	. A Session Error will cause the system to enter the Terminate State. No additional feedback to the user is necessary. 
EH1B1	. A session error shall cause any records locked by the ATM Controller to be unlocked. No changes should be committed. 
EH1C	. A System error will lock out the system. 
EH1C1	. A system error shall cause any records locked by the ATM Controller to be unlocked. No changes should be committed. 
EH1C2	. A system error shall disable all User Console controls. 
EH1C3	. A system error shall set the menu state to Blank. 
EH1C4	. A system error shall display System Error Message. 
EH2	. The error handling system shall maintain a log file which can be checked by ATM maintenance personnel. 
EH2A	. The error log shall include a description of each error that occurs. 
EH2B	. The error log shall include the level of the error, as specified by EH1. 
EH2C	. The error log shall include the time and date at which the error occurred. 
EH2D	. The error log shall include the account number of any user logged in at the time the error occurred. 

